Learning Outcomes GP.md, before:

# Learning Outcomes GP
Learning Outcomes for the Group Project
## Table of contents
- [1. Web application](#1-web-application)
- [3. Agile method](#3-agile-method)
- [5. Cultural differences and ethics](#5-cultural-differences-and-ethics)
- [6. Requirements and design](#6-requirements-and-design)
- [7. Business processes](#7-business-processes)
- [8. Professional](#8-professional)

### 1. Web-application
#### User Friendly:
For the group project I did some research about UX (User Experience) and how to improve it. We were making a dashboard for Bert (from Isaac A.K.A. IO) and after the dashboard was finished it was my job to test it on some basic rules to create a user friendly dashboard. Down below is a screenshot of the tips and tops I gave Rick for his UI.

| <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/58734636/164194398-c8a75c0a-fe20-4245-a515-66456a1f6b63.png" width="500" height="500" /> |
| :--: |
| _Results of the research I did on UX (in Dutch)_ |

#### Full-stack:
I was responsible for most of the logic in the backend of our application. The things i created for the logic in our backend are the MQTT-client (listener) and the algorithm for the sensors. The MQTT-client is part of our backend, it receives messages from the sensors at Isaac's office. These messages contain temperature and humidity measurements. They send in their data every 30 seconds. We will then store the data in a cache. So if the most recent data is needed we can simply take it out of the cache, so there is no need to run a database query.

If a sensor were to fail to send data my algorithm would get the temperature of the closest sensor. The closest sensor would be calculated using none other than the famous pythagorean theorem (A<sup>2</sup> + B<sup>2</sup> = C<sup>2</sup>). The sensors are on a grid, so it is easy to get the two points of the missing sensor and the other active sensors. Using the theorem we can calculate the distance between the missing sensor and all active sensors and make a list of closest sensors to replace their data with the missing sensors data.
| <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/58734636/164228667-1792dae7-f9c9-4054-a8ec-8595bee433c5.png" width="1000" height="500" /> |
| :--: |
| _Sensor grid in the office of Isaac_ |

I also helped Yannick out a bit with the backend architecture. We're using Entity framework core for the Data Access Layer. The api-endpoints were my responsibility. I Discussed what kind of data was needed for the heatmap with Rick and Maikel, so I was sure they would get everything they needed.
| ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/58734636/164219507-c04cdc8e-9ff1-4868-8290-7f6bc77a9451.png) |
| :--: |
| _Screenshot of the architecture of our backend_ |

### 3. Agile method
We work in an agile process in our group project. Every morning we start with the daily stand-up. Here we will discuss what everyone will be doing for the day and where we currently are in the project (in terms of what is completed and what still needs to be done). We will grab our notion board and start assigning tasks (see picture below). At the end of the day we will perform the daily stand-down. Here we will discuss how everything went this day. Think about problems that may have occurred throughout the day, or things that just didn't go as planned.   
| <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/58734636/164235377-e98aad38-8905-4ecb-aa04-9e9170b56239.png" width="700" height="600" />| 
| :--: |
| _Screenshot of our notion board_ |

We end every sprint with a sprint review and a sprint retrospective. The sprint review is with the product owner. We will talk about what has priority, we gather feedback to improve our product and we take a look at what we are going to focus on upcoming sprint. But most importantly we will deliver parts of the product af often as possible to get as much feedback as possible. After the sprint review we will start the sprint retrospective with our group. We will ask ourselves a lot of questions about how it went this sprint. If anything is not to our liking, we will inspect it and adapt ourselves to improve it.
| <img src="https://www.flowsphere.ch/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/ScrumFramework_17x11-1024x663.png" width="800" height="500" />| 
| :--: |
| _The scrum workflow we apply in our project_ |

### 5. Cultural differences and ethics
Cultural:
---
**What is culture?** <br>
In my eyes, culture is the way people behave, what they believe in and what brings them together. People with the same culture will probably get along better.

**Can you give examples for cultural differences that you have experienced in your study or life? How do you explain these differences?**  
At work i have to deal with a lot of different cultures at once. Many different people work at the warehouse where i work. An example of cultural difference here is the music we play. A lot of people really love pub music (a lot of songs about drinking). But that's only a small portion of the employees. Another part really likes techno. And yet another part loves hardstyle. So we constantly experience cultural differences at work.

**What is your culture?** <br>
i think i have a traditionally dutch culture. I love and take part in many traditional dutch holidays. Like Carnaval and Sinterklaas. We love playing sports like soccer and hockey. Going out on saterday evenings to drink until we drop. It's all part of the dutch culture. Always up for a party.

**What did you do to improve the group communications with respect to cultural differences?** <br>
We all share the same culture, so it wasn't necessary for us to adapt to each other. We sometimes switch to talking english because it's better for some of us, like how i think it's better to write my portfolio in english. So we kinda switch to a modern culture were english is a very common language.

Ethics:
---

### 6. Requirements and design 
We try to get as much feedback as possible from our stakeholder. We try to meet every week, so we can improve our product as much as possible. Bert (our stakeholder) gives us feedback. For example our heatmap. We used a date and time picker to select a specific date and time for the heatmap to show the data of that specific date and time. Afther feedback from Bert we are now using a slider to pick the time and a date picker for the date. This is just an example of how we process the given feedback to improve our product. Let's take another example. At first we would have the lowest sensor value as the lowest point in the legend and the highest sensor value as the highest point in the legend. Afther feedback from Bert we now have a minimum value and a maximum value in the legend, the problem was that if the lowest sensor value was 24 degrees, the color in the legend would have been green.. this could give users a wrong indication of how warm it is
|![temperature_distribution](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/58734636/164425656-3a2769cb-121b-4ede-a318-0d91b53e7a28.png)|
| :--: |
| _Legend of the heatmap_ |

I've discussed a lot with Yannick about the design of our backend. An example of this is when we were discussing a way to easily return the most recent data. We receive data from Isaac's sensors every 30 seconds. The heatmap would only need the most recent data a sensor uploaded. So Yannick and I came up with a clever solution to store the received sensor data in a cache in the backend. This made it so no database query is needed to get all most recent data from all sensors. All thanks to the cache that stores the most recent data. We discussed and explained to each other making use of the whiteboard. This made it way easier for each other to explain ideas and problems.

On the picture below are a couple things to see, first of all everything about where we should put our MQTT listener and are stash etc. second, we needed a way to generate missing values from the sensors, for example if 1 sensor would fail to publish his data our heatmap would miss data. For this problem Yannick and I had yet another clever solution. We would use nothing other than the well known Pythagorean theorem a.k.a. (a<sup>2</sup> + b<sup>2</sup> = c<sup>2</sup>) to calculate the distance between the sensor with the missing value and the other sensors. We would use the value of the closest sensor for the sensor with the missing value. We discussed this problem with our stakeholder Bert and he told us it was a good solution to the problem.
|<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/58734636/169823873-52702549-45a2-4b9f-bff8-1d4c66398a2b.jpg" width="700" height="500" />|
| :--: |
| _The whiteboard session of me and Yannick_ |


### 7. Business processes
For our group project we don't really have a business project we can analyze. So we discussed this problem with our teacher (Marc) and came to the conclusion that we should analyze any relevant business project. So we as a group analyzed the business process of order picking. Webshops have huge warehouses filled with products that can be ordered and shipped. Advanced algorithm's create picking lists for employees to pick. We visualized this process for multiple reasons. First of all it's my job. And it was easy for me to guide our group in analyzing this process. Second of all, Rick created an order-picking system for his individual project. These two reasons let us to the decision for our business process to analyze.

We visualized the process in Engage Process Modeler. This is a tool which I had a bit of experience working with. The Engage Process Modeler makes it possible to visualize business processes. These processes can be made as advanced as one can imagine. We choose to keep it simple and clear. As a group we set down and discussed the process until we all had a clear view of the process and everyone shared the same opinion. See picture below for the visualized process.
| ![Picking](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/58734636/169815706-b2c2f944-5276-49b0-8d67-84d7c27e853d.png)|
| :--: |
| _Order-picking business process_ |
### 8. Professional

Commit message:

Update Learning Outcomes GP.md
part of ethics in outcome 5 done

Learning Outcomes GP.md, after:

# Learning Outcomes GP
Learning Outcomes for the Group Project
## Table of contents
- [1. Web application](#1-web-application)
- [3. Agile method](#3-agile-method)
- [5. Cultural differences and ethics](#5-cultural-differences-and-ethics)
- [6. Requirements and design](#6-requirements-and-design)
- [7. Business processes](#7-business-processes)
- [8. Professional](#8-professional)

### 1. Web-application
#### User Friendly:
For the group project I did some research about UX (User Experience) and how to improve it. We were making a dashboard for Bert (from Isaac A.K.A. IO) and after the dashboard was finished it was my job to test it on some basic rules to create a user friendly dashboard. Down below is a screenshot of the tips and tops I gave Rick for his UI.

| <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/58734636/164194398-c8a75c0a-fe20-4245-a515-66456a1f6b63.png" width="500" height="500" /> |
| :--: |
| _Results of the research I did on UX (in Dutch)_ |

#### Full-stack:
I was responsible for most of the logic in the backend of our application. The things i created for the logic in our backend are the MQTT-client (listener) and the algorithm for the sensors. The MQTT-client is part of our backend, it receives messages from the sensors at Isaac's office. These messages contain temperature and humidity measurements. They send in their data every 30 seconds. We will then store the data in a cache. So if the most recent data is needed we can simply take it out of the cache, so there is no need to run a database query.

If a sensor were to fail to send data my algorithm would get the temperature of the closest sensor. The closest sensor would be calculated using none other than the famous pythagorean theorem (A<sup>2</sup> + B<sup>2</sup> = C<sup>2</sup>). The sensors are on a grid, so it is easy to get the two points of the missing sensor and the other active sensors. Using the theorem we can calculate the distance between the missing sensor and all active sensors and make a list of closest sensors to replace their data with the missing sensors data.
| <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/58734636/164228667-1792dae7-f9c9-4054-a8ec-8595bee433c5.png" width="1000" height="500" /> |
| :--: |
| _Sensor grid in the office of Isaac_ |

I also helped Yannick out a bit with the backend architecture. We're using Entity framework core for the Data Access Layer. The api-endpoints were my responsibility. I Discussed what kind of data was needed for the heatmap with Rick and Maikel, so I was sure they would get everything they needed.
| ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/58734636/164219507-c04cdc8e-9ff1-4868-8290-7f6bc77a9451.png) |
| :--: |
| _Screenshot of the architecture of our backend_ |

### 3. Agile method
We work in an agile process in our group project. Every morning we start with the daily stand-up. Here we will discuss what everyone will be doing for the day and where we currently are in the project (in terms of what is completed and what still needs to be done). We will grab our notion board and start assigning tasks (see picture below). At the end of the day we will perform the daily stand-down. Here we will discuss how everything went this day. Think about problems that may have occurred throughout the day, or things that just didn't go as planned.   
| <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/58734636/164235377-e98aad38-8905-4ecb-aa04-9e9170b56239.png" width="700" height="600" />| 
| :--: |
| _Screenshot of our notion board_ |

We end every sprint with a sprint review and a sprint retrospective. The sprint review is with the product owner. We will talk about what has priority, we gather feedback to improve our product and we take a look at what we are going to focus on upcoming sprint. But most importantly we will deliver parts of the product af often as possible to get as much feedback as possible. After the sprint review we will start the sprint retrospective with our group. We will ask ourselves a lot of questions about how it went this sprint. If anything is not to our liking, we will inspect it and adapt ourselves to improve it.
| <img src="https://www.flowsphere.ch/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/ScrumFramework_17x11-1024x663.png" width="800" height="500" />| 
| :--: |
| _The scrum workflow we apply in our project_ |

### 5. Cultural differences and ethics
Cultural:
---
**What is culture?** <br>
In my eyes, culture is the way people behave, what they believe in and what brings them together. People with the same culture will probably get along better.

**Can you give examples for cultural differences that you have experienced in your study or life? How do you explain these differences?**  
At work i have to deal with a lot of different cultures at once. Many different people work at the warehouse where i work. An example of cultural difference here is the music we play. A lot of people really love pub music (a lot of songs about drinking). But that's only a small portion of the employees. Another part really likes techno. And yet another part loves hardstyle. So we constantly experience cultural differences at work.

**What is your culture?** <br>
i think i have a traditionally dutch culture. I love and take part in many traditional dutch holidays. Like Carnaval and Sinterklaas. We love playing sports like soccer and hockey. Going out on saterday evenings to drink until we drop. It's all part of the dutch culture. Always up for a party.

**What did you do to improve the group communications with respect to cultural differences?** <br>
We all share the same culture, so it wasn't necessary for us to adapt to each other. We sometimes switch to talking english because it's better for some of us, like how i think it's better to write my portfolio in english. So we kinda switch to a modern culture were english is a very common language.

Ethics:
---
**What is ethics in software engineering?** <br>
You need to think about the impact your software has on the users in an ethical way.

**Why is ethics important in software engineering?** <br>
If u were to only focus on money as a developer, u will miss the important ethical parts of a project. Let say u are creating a social media application but i'll do nothing to censor bad words and only focus on getting as much money as possible. The user will suffer from this.

**What do you have to do as a software engineer to address ethical aspects in your work?**


### 6. Requirements and design 
We try to get as much feedback as possible from our stakeholder. We try to meet every week, so we can improve our product as much as possible. Bert (our stakeholder) gives us feedback. For example our heatmap. We used a date and time picker to select a specific date and time for the heatmap to show the data of that specific date and time. Afther feedback from Bert we are now using a slider to pick the time and a date picker for the date. This is just an example of how we process the given feedback to improve our product. Let's take another example. At first we would have the lowest sensor value as the lowest point in the legend and the highest sensor value as the highest point in the legend. Afther feedback from Bert we now have a minimum value and a maximum value in the legend, the problem was that if the lowest sensor value was 24 degrees, the color in the legend would have been green... this could give users a wrong indication of how warm it is
|![temperature_distribution](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/58734636/164425656-3a2769cb-121b-4ede-a318-0d91b53e7a28.png)|
| :--: |
| _Legend of the heatmap_ |

I've discussed a lot with Yannick about the design of our backend. An example of this is when we were discussing a way to easily return the most recent data. We receive data from Isaac's sensors every 30 seconds. The heatmap would only need the most recent data a sensor uploaded. So Yannick and I came up with a clever solution to store the received sensor data in a cache in the backend. This made it so no database query is needed to get all most recent data from all sensors. All thanks to the cache that stores the most recent data. We discussed and explained to each other making use of the whiteboard. This made it way easier for each other to explain ideas and problems.

On the picture below are a couple things to see, first of all everything about where we should put our MQTT listener and are stash etc. second, we needed a way to generate missing values from the sensors, for example if 1 sensor would fail to publish his data our heatmap would miss data. For this problem Yannick and I had yet another clever solution. We would use nothing other than the well known Pythagorean theorem a.k.a. (a<sup>2</sup> + b<sup>2</sup> = c<sup>2</sup>) to calculate the distance between the sensor with the missing value and the other sensors. We would use the value of the closest sensor for the sensor with the missing value. We discussed this problem with our stakeholder Bert and he told us it was a good solution to the problem.
|<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/58734636/169823873-52702549-45a2-4b9f-bff8-1d4c66398a2b.jpg" width="700" height="500" />|
| :--: |
| _The whiteboard session of me and Yannick_ |


### 7. Business processes
For our group project we don't really have a business project we can analyze. So we discussed this problem with our teacher (Marc) and came to the conclusion that we should analyze any relevant business project. So we as a group analyzed the business process of order picking. Webshops have huge warehouses filled with products that can be ordered and shipped. Advanced algorithm's create picking lists for employees to pick. We visualized this process for multiple reasons. First of all it's my job. And it was easy for me to guide our group in analyzing this process. Second of all, Rick created an order-picking system for his individual project. These two reasons let us to the decision for our business process to analyze.

We visualized the process in Engage Process Modeler. This is a tool which I had a bit of experience working with. The Engage Process Modeler makes it possible to visualize business processes. These processes can be made as advanced as one can imagine. We choose to keep it simple and clear. As a group we set down and discussed the process until we all had a clear view of the process and everyone shared the same opinion. See picture below for the visualized process.
| ![Picking](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/58734636/169815706-b2c2f944-5276-49b0-8d67-84d7c27e853d.png)|
| :--: |
| _Order-picking business process_ |
### 8. Professional
